Introduction
I started with SNHU back in 2018, focusing on a Computer Science degree. The road to get where I’m at today wasn’t easy and took many long nights. Now that I am to submit a solid project that had me reflect on my past, it was nice to go back and enhance some project that I might have not done so well because I didn’t have the skills and knowledge I have now. I’m now hoping to complete my final class for the Computer Science program and be the first in my family to earn not one but two bachelor’s degrees. 

Educational Reflection
I’ve learned a lot of things while in this program. First off, while not directly related to the program, I think attention to detail is a crucial skill. There have been many times that my code has failed to compile, all because of a simple mistake or typo in the code. Attention to detail sort of relates to the concept of code reviews. By using code reviews, we can have our peers review our code and look for mistakes that we may have missed. Same as proofreading a paper, having a fresh set of eyes on something can help pinpoint easily overlooked mistakes. Another concept that I’ve learned that is important, deals with testing and its methodology. Testing is crucial to ensuring a program works, and becomes more complicated as a project grows larger. Adopting the mindset of a tester and testing early and often is a great skill to pick up. Finally, learning about the Software Development Lifecycle was eye-opening. I never really thought about working on a large-scale project with a team before, but there are a lot of logistics that go into planning a large project and coordinating with coworkers. Additionally, being able to understand the needs of the client and translating those needs into direction for employees is important as well.

Portfolio Summary
All of the courses throughout the Computer Science program have helped me acquire the necessary skills and knowledge to position myself for a job in this industry. CS-250 taught me much about the Software Development Lifecyle and how communication with the client is important. CS-260 was a great lesson on data structures and algorithms. CS-310 showed me the basics of collaboration and explained how working together is necessary for large projects. CS-360 showed me there was more to just coding but create apps. While my learning was not restricted to these classes, I felt that these were some of the more important classes in the program, at least to me. From these classes I learned things I wasn't aware of initially. Because of that I wanted to incorporate the things I learned into my Portfolio. My first enhancement builds from my CS-360 final project and was focused on developing an app, where I chose to create and inventory application that allowed the user to track inventory, have some security with a username/ password, and allowed the user to add/ delete items in a store.  My second enhancement builds off of my CS-260 final project, I chose to enhance the project going through the project and finding ways to use algorithms and data structures to make it more efficient and complex. This will demonstrate my skills with algorithms and data structures. Finally, my third enhancement pulls from both DAT-220, I chose to enhance the project by allowing the user to be manage queries for simple searches within each field, as well as the ability to query for customer data by state, city, age group, etc.
Overall, these artifacts represent three distinct projects and don't necessarily go well together. However, I think that they allowed me to demonstrate what I've learned throughout this program. I believe the enhancements made to these three projects represent my learning and display my competency in this program.

Preparing for The Future
My current job as a Software Quality Engineer, doesn’t deal with writing code but I read code every day. Being able to complete this program not only gives me the skills to better my job duties, it helps me take the next step in my career by allowing me to move up to the next level because of my degree. I haven’t decided if I would switch career paths yet but during my down time I will continue to teach myself coding skills that will help me along the way. 

